AFSC: 14F
Title: INFORMATION OPERATIONS
Category: Intelligence
Pages: 71-72
Notes: None
==================================================

AFSC 14F4, Staff 
AFSC 14F3, Qualified  
AFSC 14F1, Entry 
(Changed 31 Oct 23) 
1. Specialty Summary. Leads and applies social science principles across four functional competencies: analysis, planning, integration, 
and assessments throughout the full range of military operations to influence perceptions and behavior, and to drive action or inaction of 
relevant actors. IO professionals coordinate, integrate, and synchronize information capabilities with military operations to achieve an 
information advantage over adversaries. 14F personnel leverage information and the integrated joint planning environment to achieve 
commander's objectives in an increasingly pervasive, dynamic, and interconnected information environment (IE). Additionally, IO 
officers possess core disciplines in Deception Activities, Military Information Support Operations (MISO), and Operations Security 
(OPSEC). Finally, IO officers perform IO management/staff functions to include acquisition, career broadening, doctrine production, 
education and training, financial management, human capital/force management, information technology, modeling and simulation, 
policy, research and technology, security, and strategy. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Uses access to the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System, Tier 5 (T5) information systems or similar 
classified/privileged information environments to provide insight into adversary intentions, weaknesses, and potential vulnerabilities in a 
timely manner that allows expedient operational design and faster completion of friendly observe, orient, decide, act (OODA) cycles. 
Characterizes, forecasts, anticipates, and seizes the initiative in the IE to support the joint force commander’s decision superiority and 
integrates IE outcomes with Operation Environment. Equips policy makers, planners, and targeteers with the tools to maintain or 
influence perceptions and attitudes that drive behavior and decision-making of key leaders, groups, and organizations, enhancing air 
power effects through the IE and increases permissibility of all operations, activities, and investments (OAI) across the spectrum of 
conflict and peacetime engagements. 
2.2. 
Manages planning for flexible and adaptive operations through the joint planning process in support of higher headquarters’ and 
commander’s objectives and desired effects. Identifies IO scope, planning support requirements, relevant aspects, and centers of gravity of 
the physical, informational, and cognitive dimensions of the IE. Recognizes desired and undesired effects that support or degrade Joint 
Force Commander’s information objectives and recommends effects and activities that support tasks in the IE, while calculating 2nd and 
3rd order effects. Ensures consistency and credibility of actions, words, and deeds through comprehensive coordination. Understands the 
fundamental concepts, principles, and doctrine required to develop the air portion of a joint/combined campaign plan and ensure IO 
supports the strategic end states. 
2.3. 
Directs the synchronized planning, execution, and assessment of kinetic and non-kinetic capabilities into the targeting cycle to 
effectively wage information warfare throughout the full spectrum of military operations. Provides considerations for targets that are 
vulnerable and susceptible to operations in the IE, capabilities that can be applied to achieve the desired effects of those operations, and 
how to assess the results once those capabilities have been applied. Leads and develops kinetic and non-kinetic capability requirements as 
part of the effects-based approach to targeting for both preplanned and dynamic situations. Serves as the primary subject matter expert 
throughout the target nomination and review process for human targets that, if engaged, will create a desired effect within the operational 
environment. 
2.4. 
Drives the coordination and integration of information capabilities with Service, Joint, and Interagency organizations. Advises 
leadership regarding implications, execution, analysis, theories and research findings relevant to the disciplines of Deception Activities, 
MISO, and OPSEC. Synchronizes and provides strategic guidance emphasizing the importance of informational and physical effects 
integration within USAF and Joint operations during execution to shape the IE in support of military operations. 
2.5. 
Leads IO focused input to assessment plans and evaluates data to provide IO related assessment recommendations. Assesses the IE 
to identify decision makers, factors that guide the decision-making process, and infrastructure that supports and communicates decisions. 
Analyzes a wide variety of scenario related products including reports, survey and polling information, and open-source documents and 
evaluates IO objective status based on developed measures of effectiveness (MOE) and MOE indicators. Identifies information capability 
shortfalls, changes in parameters and/or conditions in the IE, and resource issues that may impede joint IO effectiveness. Ensures that 
desire effects in support of the commander’s objectives are well-defined, measurable and provide feedback to commanders, operators, and 
planners as operations evolve. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. Knowledge of IO, MISO, Deception Activities, MILDEC, and OPSEC, including the application, integration and 
synchronization of information capabilities to influence, disrupt, corrupt or usurp the decision making of selected audiences to create 
desired effects. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry education requirements for the 14FX AFSC, see Appendix A, 14FX CIP Education Matrix. 
3.3. Training. For award of AFSC 14F3, the following training is mandatory: 
3.3.1. Completion of Information Operations Professionals Course (IOPC); or  
3.3.2. Information Operations Integration Course (IOIC); and 
3.3.3. Information Operations Integration Course- Military Information Support Operations (IIC-MISO) or Psychological Operations 
Qualification Course (POQC); and 
71 
DAFOCD, 31 Oct 24 
3.3.4. Air Force Operations Security Course (AFOC); or 
3.3.5. Similar courses as approved by the 14F Career Field Manager, Career Field Functional Manager, or Career Field Authority. 
3.4. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory: 
3.4.1. For award of AFSC 14F3, a minimum of 36 months of experience in a 14FX position is mandatory. Experience must include 
assignments performing career field functions as described in paragraph 2, Duties and Responsibilities. 
3.4.1.1. 
A master's degree in one of the specified disciplines in Appendix A, 14FX CIP Education Matrix fulfills 12 months of the 
required 36-month requirement. 
3.4.1.2. 
A Doctor of Philosophy degree in one of the specified disciplines in Appendix A, 14FX CIP Education Matrix fulfills 18- 
months of the 36-month requirement. 
3.5. Other. Entry and retention in this specialty requires routine access to the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System, 
Tier 5 (T5) information, systems or similar classified environments. For award and retention of AFSC 14FX, adjudication of a current T5 
Investigation in accordance with DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel Security Program, is required. 
NOTE: Award of the entry level without a completed T5 Investigation is authorized provided an interim Top Secret security clearance has 
been granted according to DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16 -1405.