AFSC: 14N
Title: INTELLIGENCE
Category: Intelligence
Pages: 74-75
Notes: None
==================================================

AFSC 14N4, Staff 
INTELLIGENCE 
DAFOCD, 31 Oct 24 
AFSC 14N3, Qualified  
AFSC 14N1, Entry 
(Changed 30 Apr 21) 
1. Specialty Summary. Leads and performs intelligence activities across the full range of military operations supporting the Air Force’s 
Service Core Function (SCF) of Global Integrated Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). The Air Force conducts global 
integrated ISR operations through a five-phase process commonly known by its acronym, PCPAD: planning and direction; collection; 
processing and exploitation; analysis and production; and dissemination. Additionally, ISR professionals conduct assessment, evaluation, 
and feedback throughout each phase. Air Force intelligence officers lead Airmen through the PCPAD process across four main areas, also 
known as functional competencies: Analysis, Collection, Targeting, and Sensing Grid Activities. To execute these functional competencies 
intelligence officers utilize subject matter expertise in the six intelligence disciplines of geospatial intelligence (GEOINT), human 
intelligence (HUMINT), measurement and signature intelligence (MASINT), open source intelligence (OSINT), signals intelligence 
(SIGINT), and technical intelligence (TECHINT); utilize professional tradecraft to include assessment, counterdrug, counter proliferation, 
counterterrorism, current intelligence, general military intelligence, indications and warning, irregular warfare and target intelligence; and 
integrate thoroughly within cross functional capabilities, missions, and organizations to include airborne ISR, the Air Operations Center 
(AOC), the Air Support Operations Center (ASOC), cyberspace ISR, the Distributed Common Ground Station (DCGS), flying unit level 
support, force protection, information operations, space, and special operations forces (SOF). Finally, intelligence officers perform ISR 
enterprise management/staff functions to include acquisition, career broadening, doctrine, education and training, financial management, 
human capital/talent management, information technology, modeling and simulation, policy, research and technology, security, and 
strategy. Related DoD Occupational Group: 230100. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Directs intelligence activities. Directs ISR activities and organizations and establishes goals and objectives. Reviews requirements 
for objectives and relative priorities. Serves as the commander’s senior intelligence advisor. Directs preparation of intelligence budget 
estimates and financial plans. Implements standardization, evaluation, and training programs, and monitors compliance. 
2.2. 
Develops intelligence plans and policies. Evaluates impact of legislative action, executive orders, regulations, directives, and 
management decisions. Integrates intelligence activities into plans and programs. Develops and implements intelligence operations and 
applications policies, plans, concepts, systems, and orders for the intelligence disciplines, professional tradecraft, and integration with 
cross functional capabilities. Conducts force development, management and structure planning. 
2.3. 
Manages and coordinates intelligence activities. Confers with government, business, professional, scientific, and other nations' 
organizations to provide support, exchange ideas, participate in studies, and coordinate on proposals and findings. Manages intelligence 
responsibilities of the Department of Defense Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System. Coordinates with personnel, materiel, 
planning, programming, and operational functions on allocation of resources, availability of funds, and preparation and implementation of 
operational plans. Supports weapon system acquisition. 
2.4. 
Produces timely and accurate fused intelligence analysis. Uses structured analytical techniques to convert processed information 
into finished intelligence through the integration, evaluation, analysis, and interpretation of all-source data and the preparation of 
intelligence products in support of known or anticipated user requirements. Produces intelligence from the information gathered by the 
collection capabilities assigned or attached to the joint force and from the refinement and compilation of intelligence received from 
subordinate units and external organizations. Integrates, evaluates, analyzes, and interprets all processed information to create products 
that will satisfy the commander’s priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) and requests for information (RFIs). 
2.5. 
Conducts collection and ISR operations. Executes collection management by converting intelligence requirements into collection 
requirements, establishing priorities, tasking or coordinating with appropriate collection sources or agencies, monitoring results, and re- 
tasking, as required. Conducts collection operations by directing, scheduling, and controlling specific collection platforms, sensors and 
HUMINT sources to include the physical operation of airborne systems (both manned and remotely piloted), space-based systems, cyber, 
non-traditional ISR and HUMINT sources as well as near real time (NRT) coordination and control. Performs processing, exploitation, 
and dissemination by converting raw collection into forms that can be readily used by commanders, decision makers at all levels, 
intelligence analysts and other consumers. 
2.6. 
Employs multi-domain sensing grid activities. Performs activities such as collection operations (sensing), analysis (identify and 
attribute), delivering information to customers, and collaborating with partners (sharing). Understands cloud technology, machine 
intelligence, and big data analytics combined with critical thinking skills to accelerate intelligence activities in a fast-paced, data-intensive 
environment where Airmen act as both producers and consumers of information. Understands how to operate within a collaborative 
sensing grid and use a common data environment to enable human-machine teaming and empower ISR Airmen to be more effective in 
solving problems and delivering time-dominant intelligence. 
2.7. 
Performs targeting functions. Performs targeting functions to include kinetic and non-kinetic target development, weaponeering, 
precision point mensuration (PPM), force application, execution planning, and combat assessment. Selects and prioritizes targets and 
matches appropriate actions to those targets to create specific desired effects that achieve objectives, taking account of operational 
requirements and capabilities. Conducts analysis of enemy personnel, units, disposition, facilities, systems, and nodes relative to the 
mission, objectives, and the capabilities at the Joint Force Commander’s disposal, to identify and nominate specific centers of gravity 
(COG) and high-value targets (HVT) that, if exploited in a systematic manner, will create the desired effects and support accomplishment 
of the commander’s objectives. 
74 
DAFOCD, 31 Oct 24 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of intelligence fundamentals, security, analysis, communications skills, the intelligence 
disciplines, the intelligence community, ISR information systems, research sources and methods, the presentation of friendly forces, 
friendly weapons systems, adversary capabilities, ISR operations, targeting, integration, and sensing grid activities. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry education requirements see Appendix A, 14N CIP Education Matrix. 
3.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.3.1. 14N1. Completion of the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course.14N3. Completion of mission qualification, which includes but 
is not limited to IQT/MQT, mission certification, or other training deemed necessary to be considered qualified to perform assigned 
duties. (Note: Waivers for mandatory Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course training must be submitted in accordance with AFMAN 36
2100 and 14N Career Field Manager guidance.) 
3.4. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.4.1. 14N3. Complete a minimum of 36 months performing intelligence functions. 
3.5. Other. 
3.5.1. For entry and retention in this specialty: 
3.5.1.1. 
Specialty requires routine access to Tier 5 (T5) information, systems or similar classified environments. For award and 
retention of AFSCs 14NX, completion of a current T5 Investigation IAW DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel 
Security Program is mandatory. Access to T5 material is determined by favorable adjudication of the T5 updates, according to applicable 
security and intelligence regulations. The Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility (DoD CAF) is solely responsible for 
determining and certifying eligibility for access to T5 material. 
3.5.1.2. 
In accordance with AFMAN 36-2100, revocation of eligibility for access to T5 information or systems requires a withdrawal of 
14NX AFSCs, unless an exemption is granted by HQ AFPC/DPMSSM on the recommendation of HQ USAF/A2/A6. Revocation of an 
officer’s security clearance by AFCAF requires a withdrawal of 14NX AFSCs without exception.  
NOTE: Award of the entry level AFSC without a completed T5 Investigation is authorized provided an interim Top Secret security 
clearance has been granted according to DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16 -1405.