AFSC: 1A3X1
Title: MOBILITY FORCE AVIATOR
Category: Operations
Pages: 24-25
Notes: I believe the 1A career field has been rebranded since at least 2024. The 1A3X1 career field wasn't within the document.
==================================================

CEM Code 1A100* 
AFSC 1A192*, Senior Enlisted Leader  
AFSC 1A172*, Craftsman  
AFSC 1A152*, Journeyman 
AFSC 1A132*, Apprentice 
AFSC 1A112, Helper 
MOBILITY FORCE AVIATOR 
(Established 31 Oct 23) 
1. Specialty Summary. The Lead-MAJCOM for aircraft and mission set will determine the Mobility Force Aviator (MFA) performance 
tasks as outlined in Master Training Tasks/Task Training Lists associated with Mission Design Series crew positions. Performs preflight and 
post-flight of aircraft and aircraft systems. Receives cargo/passenger load briefings, checks placement of cargo/passengers against aircraft 
limitations/restrictions, determines adequacy of cargo documentation. Supervises cargo/passenger loading and offloading activities. Services 
aircraft (e.g. fuel, water, and hydraulics) and creates load plans for cargo and passengers. Determines and directs cargo placement and restraint 
equipment requirements. Computes aircraft take-off and landing data/weight and balance. Demonstrates use of aircrew flight equipment. 
Accomplishes passenger comfort activities during flight.   Performs aircrew functions and other mission specific qualification duties to 
include the airdrop of personnel and equipment/cargo. Performs in-flight refueling aircrew functions and activities. Monitors and operates 
complex aircraft instrumentation systems during flight, to include engine and aircraft systems controls, panels, and indicators. Some missions 
require non-standard configurations and penetration into hostile/denied territories undetected utilizing night vision devices and terrain, 
following procedures often in close proximity to other aircraft and operations on unprepared surfaces. The hazardous mission and training 
environment demands high degrees of attention, focus, professionalism, knowledge, skill, discipline, coordination, and stress management to 
successfully and safely carry out. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 105000, 195000, and 105000. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Performs aircraft inspections. Performs aircrew visual inspection; non-scheduled aircraft maintenance; and preflight, through- flight, 
and post flight inspections of aircraft away from home station. Accomplishes preflight and post- flight records and reports. Maintains aircraft 
forms and records during flight and while aircraft is away from home station. 
2.2. 
Manages cargo and passenger load briefings. Accomplishes load planning of cargo and passenger loads if required. Supervises cargo 
and passenger loading for off-loading operations. Directs the placement of material handling equipment to accomplish cargo on/off loading 
operations. Ensures cargo and passengers are placed according to load plans. Determines cargo restraint requirements according to criteria and 
directs and checks the application of cargo restraint equipment. Checks cargo/passenger loads against manifests. Determines and verifies 
passenger, cargo, fuel, and emergency and special equipment distribution and weight. Computes and applies aircraft weight and balance. 
2.3. 
Computes takeoff, climb, cruise, and landing data. Determines engine fuel consumption using airspeed, atmospheric data, charts, 
computer, or electronic calculator. Records actual aircraft performance data in flight engineer's log. 
2.4. 
Operates and monitors engine and aircraft systems controls and indicators according to flight manual procedures.  Assists pilot or 
performs engine starts, and monitors run-up, flight operations, and engine shutdown. Operates engine controls to provide desired efficiency 
and economy. Monitors engine instruments throughout period of operation. Controls, monitors, and regulates aircraft systems such as electric, 
communication, navigation, hydraulic, pneumatic, fuel, air conditioning, and pressurization; ventilation; auxiliary power unit; and lubrication 
systems. Observes warning indicators and light for fire, overheat, depressurization, and system failure. Reports abnormal conditions to pilot 
and recommends corrective action. Monitors provides passenger comfort. Prepares and dispenses passenger meals, snacks, and refreshments. 
Completes required aircraft forms documentation and border clearance requirements. Visually monitors aircraft clearances (interior and 
exterior), identifies proximal threats to the aircraft and initiates corrective actions (aircraft scanning). 
2.5. 
Performs in-flight refueling aircrew duties. Checks forms for equipment status. Performs visual and operational check of air refueling 
and associated systems and equipment. Performs in-flight operational check of air refueling systems. Directs receiver aircraft into air refueling 
position. Operates in-flight air refueling controls and switches to safely affect contact between tanker and receiver aircraft. Monitors control 
panel for proper operation of equipment during air refueling and advises receiver pilot of actions required to safely maintain position within 
the air-refueling envelope. Keeps tanker pilot informed as to progress of air refueling operations. Performs emergency operations and 
procedures as required for emergency off-load and on-load of fuel. 
2.6. 
Ensures availability of fleet service equipment and receives and stows in-flight meals. Accomplishes passenger briefings to include the 
use of emergency equipment, evacuation procedures, and border clearance requirements. Demonstrates the use of passenger emergency 
oxygen systems and life vests. Supervises passengers in-flight. Performs jumpmaster duties. 
2.7. 
Conducts cargo and personnel airdrops according to directives. Attaches extraction parachutes to cargo and platforms. Inspects cargo 
and platforms, extraction systems and connects static lines. Checks tiedowns, parachutes, containers, suspension systems, and extraction 
systems to ensure proper cargo extraction or release. Operates aircraft airdrop systems and supervises cargo and paratroopers exiting the 
aircraft. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of: electrical, arithmetic, mechanical, navigation, communication, hydraulic, and pneumatic 
systems applying to aircraft and related systems; flight theory; minor in-flight maintenance; aircraft emergency procedures; in-flight refueling 
system; using and interpreting diagrams, schematics, aircraft performance charts, loading charts, technical publications and flight manuals; 
aircraft refueling systems; flying directives; weight and balance factors; cargo tie- down techniques; using survival equipment and oxygen; 
24 
DAFECD, 31 Oct 24 
border agency clearance; dispensing and preserving food aboard aircraft; and understanding types, capacities, and configuration of transport 
aircraft. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with course(s) in mechanics, mathematics, physics, computer 
principles, speech, and English is desirable. 
3.2.1. 1A112 Completion of Career Enlisted Aviator Preparatory School. 
3.2.2. 1A132. Completion of Initial Qualification Training for the assigned aircraft/crew-position and Initial Qualification Course and 
accompanying Certificate of Aircrew Qualification AF Form 8 in Mission Design Series. 
3.3. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.3.1. 1A152. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A132. Also, experience is mandatory in functions such as aircraft and performance 
weight and balance computations, aircraft records maintenance, aircraft systems maintenance and inspections, inspecting, operating, and 
troubleshooting in-flight refueling systems; preparing or verifying load plans; loading and unloading aircraft; and instructing passengers in the 
use of emergency equipment and procedures, in-flight emergency procedures; using personal equipment and oxygen, communications; current 
flying directives; interpreting diagrams, loading charts, and applicable technical publications; border agency clearance requirements and 
forms; principles of dispensing and preserving food aboard aircraft; and cargo and personnel airdrop techniques and equipment; certify and 
maintain Mission Ready (MR) and/or Combat Mission Ready (CMR) status; experience and understanding in aviation organizational 
functions and shops to include Training, Tactics, Scheduling, and Evaluations. 
3.3.2. 1A172. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A152. Also, experience is mandatory in performing or supervising functions such as 
flight engineer activities., inspecting, operating, and troubleshooting in-flight refueling systems; preparing or verifying load plans; loading and 
unloading cargo on aircraft; and instructing passengers in the use of emergency equipment and procedures, airdrop techniques; weight and 
balance factors; arithmetic, emergency equipment and in-flight emergency procedures; personal equipment and oxygen use; communications; 
current flying directives; interpreting diagrams, and applicable technical publications; border agency clearance requirements and forms; 
principles of dispensing and preserving food aboard aircraft; and cargo restraint techniques. Ability to supervise aviation organizational 
functions and shops to include Training, Tactics, Scheduling, and Evaluations. 
3.3.3. 1A192. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A172 and experience managing and directing Mobility Mission functions and 
activities. 
3.4. 
Other: The following are mandatory as indicated: 
3.4.1. For entry into this specialty: 
3.4.2. See attachment 4 for entry requirements. 
3.4.3. For entry, award, and retention of these AFSCs: 
3.5. 
Physical qualification for aircrew duty according to DAFMAN 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, Class III medical 
standards. 
3.6. 
3.7. 
Normal depth perception as defined in DAFMAN 48-123. 
Qualification for aviation service according to AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation 
Badges. 
3.8. 
3.9. 
Must maintain eligibility to deploy and mobilize worldwide. 
Height in accordance with DAFMAN 48-123 and as directed in the current Medical Standards Directory Section T. 
3.10. For award and retention of these AFSCs: 
3.11. Must maintain local network access IAW AFI 17-130, Cybersecurity Program Management and AFMAN 17-1301, Computer Security. 
3.12. Specialty requires routine access to Tier 3 (T3) information, systems or similar classified environments. 
3.13. Completion of a current T3 Investigation required IAW DoDM 5200.02, AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel Security Program. 
3.14. Must not be downgraded to Non-Mission Ready/Non-Combat Mission Ready (NMR/NCMR), or Unqualified (UQ) Status more than 
four periods in a Ready Aircrew Program cycle due to events under the aircrew member’s control. 
NOTE: Award of the entry level without a completed T3 Investigation is authorized provided an interim Secret security clearance has been 
granted according to DoDM 5200.02, AFMAN 16-1405. 
4. *Specialty Shredouts:
 Suffix 
A 
Primary Aircraft 
Suffix 
C-5 Flight Engineer
 I 
Primary Aircraft 
KC-10 Boom Operator 
B 
C-5 Loadmaster
 J 
KC-10 Flight Engineer 
C 
C-17 Loadmaster
 K E-8 Flight Engineer
 D 
C-130J Loadmaster
 L 
C-130H Flight Engineer
 E 
WC-130 Loadmaster 
N 
C-130H Loadmaster
 F 
G 
E-3 Flight Engineer
 O EC-130H Flight Engineer 
KC-46 Boom Operator 
Z 
Data Mask Mobility Force 
Aviator 
H 
25 
KC-135 Boom Operator