AFSC: 1C3
Title: ALL-DOMAIN COMMAND AND CONTROL OPERATIONS
Category: Operations
Pages: 45-47
Notes: Includes these AFSCs-AFSC 1C391, Superintendent AFSC 1C371, Craftsman AFSC 1C351, Journeyman AFSC 1C331, Apprentice AFSC 1C311, Helper
==================================================

CEM Code 1C300 
DAFECD, 31 Oct 24 
AFSC 1C391, Superintendent 
AFSC 1C371, Craftsman 
AFSC 1C351, Journeyman 
AFSC 1C331, Apprentice 
AFSC 1C311, Helper 
ALL-DOMAIN COMMAND AND CONTROL OPERATIONS 
(Changed 30 Apr 24) 
1. Specialty Summary. Manages and performs activities within fixed ground, mobile and airborne command and control (C2) facilities 
such as installation and expeditionary command posts (CP), operations centers, rescue coordination centers, and Higher Headquarters 
Command Centers/Operations Centers. Provides command, control, communications, and information support throughout the full 
spectrum of operations to include peacetime, emergency and disaster situations, crisis, contingency, and war. Responsible for emergency 
action messages from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Headquarters Air Force, Headquarters Space Force, or Combatant 
Commands. Disseminates time- sensitive critical information to senior leaders and support agencies. Establishes procedures for 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) Operational Reporting Program. Reports international treaty compliance information. Uses 
communications systems and consoles to affect positive control of assigned forces and weapons systems. Supports chemical, biological, 
radiological, and nuclear (CBRN), and conventional warning and reporting activities. AFSC Duty Identifier: C2OPS. Related DoD 
Occupational Subgroup: 125000. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Performs Command, Control, and Communications (C3) actions to support National Defense, Homeland Security, and All-Domain 
Air and Space Force operations throughout the full spectrum of operations. Provides a single, consolidated C2 center to monitor mission 
execution of wing/installation commander assigned or supported missions (to include tenant, joint, and combined missions) by fusion of 
data from disparate C2 nodes across the installation (BDOC, EOC, AMOPS, etc.). Provides C2 of worldwide nuclear and conventional 
forces supporting Emergency Plans, Operations Orders, and Operations Plans. Coordinates the execution of Mission Type Orders (e.g., 
Warning Orders, Tasking Orders, Prepare to Deploy Orders, Planning Orders and Execution Orders). Supports joint force operations and 
Joint All Domain Operations (JADO) through the combined Joint All Domain C2 (CJADC2) concept. Facilitates C3 in support of the Air 
Force Emergency Management (EM) Program. Provides functional expertise to ensure synergy among the various components of the Air 
Force EM Program. Coordinates actions to ensure prompt response during EM operations including immediate mobilization of resources 
and participation of agencies and organizations. Liaisons communications/supports first responders to provide life-saving response support 
to base personnel. Receives, processes, and disseminates emergency action messages via voice and record copy systems. Encodes, 
decodes, and transmits and relays presidential decisions to execute and terminate nuclear and conventional force operations at all levels of 
command, both on the ground and in-flight. Relays C2 instructions for diversion, recall, evacuation, recovery, and reconstitution of forces. 
Coordinates and executes search and rescue activities. Coordinates with other agencies and organizations during planning, executing, and 
evaluation phases of C2 operations. Executes Aerospace Control Alert mission as quick response launch authority for immediate intercept, 
inspection, influence, or defeat of potential airborne threats. Flight follows and manages aerospace resources and monitors mission status 
to include aircraft, aircrew support, transportation, maintenance support, fleet services, and passenger and cargo support. Monitors aircraft 
movement and relays information between aircrews and operations centers. Coordinates mission delays with installation and external 
agencies. Monitors status of launch and space assets. Monitors status and location of key personnel to facilitate immediate 
communications with higher headquarters. Ensures proper use and control of resources and classified material. Develops and evaluates C2 
Operations processes. Performs self-assessments. Ensures operational readiness and adherence to standards. Recommends actions to 
correct C2 Operations procedural deficiencies. Maintains and disseminates local and worldwide current and forecasted weather to include 
watches, advisories and warnings to installation populace and aerospace resources. The functional organization for the exercise of mission 
command authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the 
mission. 
2.2. 
Manages and executes the DAF Reporting Program. Prepares and submits Operational Reports (OPREP) and Commander’s Critical 
Information Requirement (CCIR) reports, attainment/deviation reporting, nuclear execution reporting (NEREP), international treaty, and aerospace 
asset reports. Analyzes and disseminates information derived from DAF reporting. Establishes policy for operational and, if applicable, 
defense readiness reporting to include developing procedures, maintaining databases, and training personnel. Ensures reported data is 
current and accurate. 
2.3. 
Operates and monitors voice, data, and alerting systems. Develops operating instructions directing All-Domain C2 Operations and 
lateral agency C2 activities. Develops, maintains, and initiates procedures to save lives, protect resources, and rapidly disseminate time 
sensitive information. These procedures support situations such as suspected or actual sabotage nuclear incidents, natural disasters, aircraft 
accidents or incidents, evacuations, dispersal, and aerospace anomalies. Receives and disseminates time-critical information to and from 
the commander to internal and external agencies during daily operations, natural disasters and wartime and contingency operations to 
affect positive control of assigned forces and weapons systems. Coordinates actions to ensure prompt response during disaster operations 
(pre-, trans-, and post-), including immediate activation and recall of all resources and participating agencies and organizations. Monitors 
actions to preserve life, minimize damage, and restore operations following natural disasters (trans- and post-), accidents, wartime attacks, 
and military operations other than war. Coordinates, directs, and monitors actions to allow continuation or restoration of vital functions and 
45 
DAFECD, 31 Oct 24 
operations. Maintains operational status displays. Maintains proficiency in C2/CJADC2 systems and aircraft flight following and mission 
management systems. Establishes manpower, communications, equipment, and facility requirements. Monitors and alerts local and base 
agencies of threats affecting the installation. 
2.4. 
Maintains Communications Security (COMSEC) to include receiving, safeguarding, utilizing, inventorying, issuing, and 
destroying COMSEC material. Maintains personnel, information, operations, computer, emission, industrial and physical security 
programs. 
2.5. 
Performs administrative actions. Compiles and maintains entry authority lists. Coordinates and provides input to installation support 
plans. Maintains directives and daily events log. Updates and maintains national, HHQ, or installation key personnel rosters. Performs as 
the Installation’s Emergency Mass Warning Notification (EMWN) program manager for mass notification systems. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Force organization and administration; JADO; EM the National Incident 
Management System (NIMS) and Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS); C2 data systems and reporting; automated data 
processing equipment use, capabilities, and limitations; techniques of presenting data; data collection procedures and summary techniques; 
purpose of command post for preparing, executing, and controlling assigned forces; emergency actions and directives; command weapon 
systems movement and transfer procedures; encode, decode; and authorization procedures used by command of assignment. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development Equivalency is mandatory. 
Courses in English or oral communication is desirable. 
3.3. Training. For award of the AFSC 1C331, completion of the Command and Control Operations Apprentice Course is mandatory. 
3.4. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.4.1. 1C351. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C331. Also, experience performing functions of C2 operations.  
3.4.2. 1C371. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C351. Also, experience performing or supervising functions of C2 operations. 
3.4.3. 1C391. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C371. Also, experience managing and directing C2 Operations functions. 
3.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated: 
3.5.1. For entry into this specialty for initial accessions: 
3.5.1.1. 
Meet mandatory AFSC aptitude, physical profile, and citizenship entry requirements as identified in attachment 4. 
3.5.1.2. 
3.5.1.3. 
3.5.1.4. 
3.5.1.5. 
NOTE 1: Entry into AFSC 1C3X1 is not open to non-United States Citizens or members with dual-citizenship status. 
Must pass Reading Aloud Test as defined in current version of Medical Standards Directory (MSD). 
Must have a S-1 profile (for PULHES clearance) 
Completion of the Command and Control operations Apprentice Course in residence is mandatory. 
3.5.2. For entry into this specialty for personnel in retraining status: 
3.5.2.1. 
Retrainees are only accepted IAW the following: E-1 through E-5 (no Time in Service (TIS) restrictions), E-6 (less than 12 
years TIS). SNCOs are not accepted without prior coordination of the 1C3 CFM. NOTE: TIS/grade restrictions do not apply to the ARC. 
3.5.2.2. 
Meet mandatory AFSC aptitude, physical profile, and citizenship entry requirements as identified in attachment 4. 
3.5.2.3. 
3.5.2.4. 
3.5.2.5. 
Must pass Reading Aloud Test as defined in current version of Medical Standards Directory (MSD). 
Must have an S-1 profile (for PULHES clearance). 
Interviewed and recommended by a 1C3 SNCO (retraining action needed for entry into 1C3X1 IAW AFMAN 10-207, 
Command Posts.) NOTE: Retraining interview do not apply to the ARC. Must be screened for eligibility for Personnel Reliability 
Assurance Program (PRAP) as outlined in the HQ AETC PRP Prescreening Guidance and deemed a suitable candidate for follow-on 
PRAP duties. PRAP standards are outlined in DoDM 5210.42 DAFMAN 13-501, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP). 
3.5.2.6. 
NOTE 1: AETC/A2N will only make recommendations for PRP, not for AFSC classification. Note 2: PRAP Screening does not 
apply to the ARC. 
3.5.2.7. 
Completion of the Command and Control Operations Apprentice Distance Learning Course is mandatory.  
3.5.3. For entry, award, and retention of these AFSCs: 
3.5.3.1. 
No history or record of psychiatric hospitalization that results in unresolved diagnosis or prolonged medical treatment (or 
observation) which precludes execution of daily AFSC duties and/or reasonable judgment. 
3.5.3.2. 
No history or evidence of personality disorder, substance use disorder, emotional instability or impulsive behaviors as 
diagnosed by a competent medical authority (examples include but are not limited to: alcohol/drug misuse, intentional self-injury, 
difficulty controlling/intense anger or sadness, etc.) which precludes execution of daily AFSC duties and/or reasonable judgment. 
3.5.3.3. 
No evidence or history of misconduct that resulted in a court martial conviction (examples include, but are not limited to: illicit 
drug use, financial irresponsibility, physical or sexual assault, domestic violence, discrimination, harassment, threats, or reprisal, etc.). For 
award, waiverable on a case-by-case basis by the 1C3 CFM. 
3.5.3.4. 
Must have a S-1 profile (for PULHES clearance) for entry. For retention, Commanders should contact the 1C3 CFM, or their 
respective 1C3 MFM, for questions on retaining a member in the 1C3 AFS. 
3.5.4. For award, and retention of these AFSCs: 
3.5.4.1. 
Must maintain certification according to AFMAN 10-207, Command Posts. 
3.5.4.2. 
3.5.4.3. 
Must obtain initial certification within 180 calendar days from date entered training.  
Must maintain local network access IAW 17-130, Cybersecurity Program Management and AFMAN 17-1301, Computer 
Security (COMPUSEC). 
3.5.4.4. 
Specialty requires routine access to Tier 5 (T5) information, systems, or similar classified environments. Completion of a 
current T5 Investigation IAW DoDM 5200.02, AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel Security Program. 
46 
DAFECD, 31 Oct 24 
3.5.4.5. 
3.5.4.6. 
Individuals with suspended clearances greater than 180 calendar days will be considered for removal from the AFSC. 
Reclassified and/or retraining personnel may enter the career field with a Secret clearance. NOTE: Award of the entry level 
without a completed T5 Investigation is authorized provided an interim Top Secret security clearance has been granted according to 
DoDM 5200.02, AFMAN 16-405, Air Force Personnel Security Program. 
3.5.4.7. 
Must have a S-1 profile (for PULHES clearance). For retention, Commanders should contact the 1C3 CFM, or their respective 
1C3 MFM, for questions on retraining a member in the 1C3 AFS. 
3.5.4.8. 
NOTE:  All AFSC withdrawals must be coordinated with HAF AF/A3TC