AFSC: 1N0
Title: ALL SOURCE INTELLIGENCE ANALYST
Category: Intelligence
Pages: 72-73
Notes: None
==================================================

AFSC 1N071, Craftsman 
AFSC 1N051, Journeyman 
AFSC 1N031, Apprentice 
AFSC 1N011, Helper 
ALL SOURCE INTELLIGENCE ANALYST 
(Changed 30 Apr 24) 
1. Specialty Summary. Performs/manages intelligence activities/functions including discovering, developing, evaluating, and providing 
intelligence information. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 124300. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Supports all aspects of Air Force operations by discovering, collating, analyzing, evaluating, and disseminating intelligence 
information. Produces all-source intelligence, situation estimates, adversarial nation, terrorist, insurgent threat studies, and other 
intelligence reports and studies. Advises commanders on force protection and intelligence information for US and Partner Nations. 
Conducts intelligence debriefings of US and allied military personnel involved in combat operations. Prepares mission reports. 
2.2. 
Conducts intelligence Training. Instructs military personnel on collecting and reporting requirements and procedures, recognition 
techniques, and assessing offensive and defensive weapon system capabilities. Assists SERE (Survival Evasion Resistance and Escape) 
and Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel in training personnel recovery and code of conduct, when necessary. Collates intelligence and 
operations materials, and assembles final products for mission briefing, study, and use. 
2.3. 
Produces intelligence materials. Prepares, maintains, and presents intelligence displays, reports, and briefings. Discovers, compiles, 
evaluates, researches, analyzes, and disseminates intelligence information. Establishes intelligence collection requirements. Identifies and 
establishes unit requirements for intelligence reference materials and maintains intelligence reference files and automated intelligence 
databases. Uses intelligence automated data systems to store, retrieve, display, and report intelligence information. 
2.4. 
Performs support to mission planning and execution. Provides tailored collections planning, threat analysis, and intelligence 
expertise necessary to develop detailed mission plans for air, space, cyberspace, and special operations. Provides current situational 
awareness and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) management for the accomplishment of the Air Tasking Order (ATO), 
Integrated Tasking Order (ITO), Cyber Tasking Order (CTO) or Space Tasking Order (STO). Analyzes intelligence to support military 
operations. Assists in the performance of, targeting functions to include target development, weaponeering, force application, mission 
planning, and combat assessment. 
2.5. 
Support to Force Protection (FP). Provides FP intelligence support to commanders and their staffs through all source intelligence 
products and briefings, focusing on human threat capabilities, tactics, trends, courses of action and ongoing threats in the unit's Area of 
Interest or Area of Responsibility. Analyzes incoming intelligence for FP value and impact. Ensures FP is addressed in current intelligence 
briefings, pre-mission, and pre-deployment briefings. Provides guidance for unit-level FP-related intelligence external and internal 
Training. Participates in the installation-level Threat Working Group (TWG). Develops realistic human threat scenarios for exercises. 
Responsible for providing FP for at-home, in-transit, and deployed units. 
2.6. 
Processes, exploits, and disseminates intelligence products and conducts analysis concerning threat countries or targets of interest 
via written and/or verbal means. These products provide specificity and knowledge to commanders and national leaders to impact tactical 
through strategic level decision making processes. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: intelligence organizations and systems; collection and reporting systems, procedures, and 
methods; intelligence information sources; techniques of identifying, collating, evaluating, and analyzing information; geographical and 
cultural aspects of foreign countries; current military capabilities and employment tactics of potential enemy offensive and defensive 
weapon systems; special operations forces tactics; techniques and procedures, and associated equipment, procedures for acquiring, 
updating, and maintaining intelligence documents, maps, and charts; maps and charts use techniques; graphic, oral, and written 
intelligence presentation; support to targeting; capabilities and application of respective computer systems; security classification marking 
and control; US sensor systems; regional physical characteristics relative to radar significance; basic electromagnetic theory; and digital 
terrain and feature databases. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development equivalency, with courses in 
speech, journalism, critical thinking, geography, modern world history, statistics, algebra, and geometry are desirable. 
3.3. Training. For award of AFSC 1N031, completion of the All Source Intelligence Apprentice Course is mandatory. 
3.3.1. For US Space Force, completion of the All Sourced Intelligence Apprentice Course and Space Warfighter Intelligence Formal Unit 
is mandatory until replaced by new courses as determined by US Space Force. 
3.4. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of AFSC indicated: 
3.4.1. 1N051. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N031. 
3.4.2. 1N071. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N051. 
3.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated: 
3.5.1. For entry into this specialty: 
3.5.1.1. 
No speech disorders or noticeable communications deficiencies as defined by AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and 
Standards. 
72 
3.5.1.2. 
DAFECD, 31 Oct 24 
A minimum score of G53 and PSM 26 on the 1N0X1 Tailored Adaptive Personality Assessment System (TAPAS)/Armed 
Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) predictive success model (PSM) or a standalone score of G55 is required.  
3.5.1.3. 
See attachment 4 for additional entry requirements. 
3.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 1N0X1: 
3.5.2.1. 
When required for a current or future assignment, must successfully complete a Counter- Intelligence (CI) polygraph 
examination and meet all customer access eligibility requirements. Airmen unable to access mission, systems and/or facilities after 12 
months of investigation/security screening should be considered for change of assignment, retraining or separation. 
3.5.2.2. 
Must maintain local network access IAW AFI 17-130, Cybersecurity Program Management Systems and AFMAN 17-1301, 
Computer Security. 
3.5.2.3. 
Specialty requires routine access to Tier 5 (T5) information, systems, or similar classified environment. 
3.5.3. For award and retention of AFSCs 1N031, 1N051, and 1N071: 
3.5.3.1. 
Completion of a current T5 Investigation IAW DoDM 5200.02, AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel Security Program, is 
mandatory. 
NOTE: Initial attendance in 1N0X1 AFSC awarding course without a completed T5 investigation is authorized provided interim T5 
eligibility has been granted IAW Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 704. Airmen who cannot obtain at least an interim T5 for 
programmed class-start are not eligible for entry into the AFSC.