AFSC: 21A
Title: AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE
Category: Maintenance
Pages: 110-110
Notes: None
==================================================

AFSC 21A4, Staff 
AFSC 21A3, Qualified  
AFSC 21A1, Entry 
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE 
(Changed 31 Oct 15, Effective 26 Feb 15) 
1. Specialty Summary. Leads, trains, and equips personnel supporting aerospace equipment sustainment and operations. Manages 
maintenance and modification of aircraft and associated equipment. Administers aircraft maintenance programs and resources. Directs 
aircraft maintenance production, staff activity, and related materiel programs. Assesses unit capability and advises senior leadership. 
Related DoD Occupational Groups: 240400. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Directs aircraft maintenance mission generation and repair network activities. Maintains workforce discipline and responds to 
personnel issues while balancing workforce availability and skill levels with operational requirements. Works with functional managers to 
develop, formulate, and manage fiscal resources. Instills maintenance discipline, security awareness and force protection concepts. 
Ensures accuracy of documentation, i.e., aircraft forms and automated systems. Ensures adherence to technical data, policy, procedures, 
and safe maintenance practices. 
2.2. 
Develops, coordinates, and executes flying and maintenance schedules. Manages aircraft configuration; daily aircraft servicing, 
weapons loading, launch, recovery, and repair; periodic aircraft maintenance inspections; and flightline safety and foreign object damage 
(FOD) prevention and dropped object programs (DOP). Manages overall aircraft fleet health and ensures aircraft availability to execute 
mission requirements. Analyzes aircraft maintenance indicators to identify trends and initiates corrective actions. 
2.3. 
Directs maintenance activities that may include aircraft propulsion, pneudraulics, egress, fuel systems, electro-environmental, 
Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) and avionics systems. Also, may include management of aerospace ground 
equipment, structural repair, low-observable repair, corrosion control, machine, welding, inspection, aero-repair, crash, damaged, disabled 
aircraft recovery, non-destructive inspection, and off-equipment munitions and armament suspension equipment. 
2.4. 
Manages quality assurance, maintenance training, budget and resource management, analysis, facilities, shared resources to 
include end-of-runway and weapons load training. Manages plans and programs, modifications, and modernizations requirements. 
2.5. 
Formulates maintenance plans and policies to meet unit tasking. Assesses unit maintenance capability in support of combat related 
operational plans and provides inputs for capability assessments for each plan. Defines aircraft maintenance procedures and requirements 
in response to emergency or contingency situations. 
2.6. 
Coordinates core logistics requirements supporting aircraft maintenance operations. Establishes support requirements for supply 
requisition, repair cycle, delivery, combat support, ground and aerial port transportation, base support plans, and munitions requirements. 
2.7. 
Directs and manages wholesale logistics life cycle sustainment support. Coordinates production schedules to include induction and 
selling systems. Defines technical problems and economic factors related to research and development, and system operational data to 
evaluate programs, assess trends, and identify improvements and deficiencies. Manages weapons system programs, funding of depot 
maintenance workloads, and transportation distribution systems. Manages logistics tests and evaluation on new acquisition programs and 
aircraft modifications. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of the AFSC: maintenance and personnel management procedures, 
and organizational and mission requirements; capabilities, limitations, and basic operating principles of aircraft systems and components; 
theory of flight and airframe construction; life cycle sustainment, quality assurance; supply, transportation, logistics plans, contracting, 
flying operations, munitions, and other unit operations related to aircraft maintenance units. 
3.2. 
Education. For entry education requirements see Appendix A, 21A CIP Education Matrix. 
3.3. Training. For award of the 21A3, completion of a formal AETC entry-level training course; minimum of 24 months assigned to a 
21A position (Group Commanders may extend this requirement), and completion of the education and training requirements specified in 
the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Training Task List. 
3.4. 
Experience. For award of AFSC 21A3, a minimum of 24 months of experience managing aircraft maintenance activities is 
mandatory. 
3.5. Other. Not used.