AFSC: 21M
Title: MUNITIONS AND MISSILE MAINTENANCE
Category: Maintenance
Pages: 111-112
Notes: --- RAW_TEXT_START ---
==================================================

AFSC 21M4*, Staff  
AFSC 21M3*, Qualified  
AFSC 21M1*, Entry 
(Changed 31 Oct 18) 
1. Specialty Summary. Manages maintenance and modification of conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic 
missiles (ICBM), and associated equipment. Administers weapons programs and resources. Directs nuclear weapons and conventional 
munitions accountability, storage, and maintenance production, staff activities, and related material programs. Manages missile 
maintenance activities at launch/missile alert facilities and launch control centers, including maintenance, repair, and inspection of missile 
systems, nuclear certified support vehicles and equipment, and other associated support equipment (SE). Serves as munitions and missile 
maintenance staff advisor to commanders. Related DoD Occupational Groups: 240500. 
2. Duties and Responsibilities: 
2.1. 
Formulates maintenance procedures for all munitions and missile systems. Builds integrated logistics support plans and develops 
maintenance support structures to sustain maintenance and personnel. Manages storage and distribution of Air Force munitions. 
Establishes training requirements and support standards of operational systems. Identifies and upgrades system deficiencies to meet 
mission requirements and enhance safety. 
2.2. 
Assesses operational requirements and environment. Advises commanders on risks associated with conventional munitions, 
nuclear weapons, and missile operations. Evaluates explosives and nuclear safety criteria and develops explosives site plans for storage, 
movement, and operations of conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and missiles. Conducts conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, 
and missile safety training. 
2.3. 
Manages conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and missile maintenance production. Recommends procedural and technical 
improvements and modifications. Schedules resources to ensure required readiness. Enforces technical performance standards and ensures 
assigned work force is properly trained and equipped. Assesses unit capability and advises commanders, supervisors, and staff. Budgets 
and allocates resources. Coordinates with operational and support units to ensure equipment readiness and efficiency of assigned forces. 
2.4. 
Formulates maintenance plans. Plans and programs support requirements, modifications, and modernization. Defines technical 
problems and economic factors related to research and development, and system application. Reviews maintenance and operational data 
to evaluate programs, assess trends, and identify improvements and deficiencies. 
2.5. 
2.6. 
Plans and directs munitions support for in-place and Air Expeditionary Force operations. 
Plans and organizes munitions and missile maintenance activities; provides space, tools, test equipment, and spare parts; 
establishes workflow. Develops and improves methods and procedures for assembly, checkout, calibration, and analysis of aerospace 
systems. Establishes performance standards for system assembly, checkout, and component replacement. 
2.7. 
Manages and coordinates activities to support intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) launch readiness operations. Advises 
commander on operational status of ICBM assets. Maintains liaison with manufacturers' representatives to solve maintenance and 
performance problems. Coordinates lateral logistics activities to ensure supply, transportation, and funding are integrated to support 
mission requirements. Represents logistics in development of flight procedures, mission checklists, and mission flight rules. 
2.8. 
Writes munitions, nuclear weapon, and missile maintenance annexes to logistics plans. Provides weapon system data for 
operational and logistics support analysis. Monitors and evaluates contracted logistics and maintenance support activities. 
2.9. 
Develops procedures for storing, assembling, delivering, inventory management, and testing conventional munitions, nuclear 
weapons, and missiles. 
2.10. Develops procedures for, and manages, routine disposal of common US munitions. 
2.11. Develops munitions accountability programs. Understands and manages all aspects of the Air Force munitions accountability 
system, including systems and procedures for financial accountability and auditability of assets. 
3. Specialty Qualifications: 
3.1. 
Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.1.1. 21M3A. Maintenance management procedures and organizational and mission requirements; capabilities, limitations, and basic 
weapons, weapons procedures, and quality assurance; supply, transportation, civil engineer, and other unit operations related to munitions, 
missile, or aircraft maintenance units; conventional air-to-air missiles; air-to-ground weapons including guided, rocket- boosted, and 
unguided munitions; dispensers and submunitions; suspension and release equipment; fuses; wiring harnesses; loading procedures; safety 
tests; munitions (ground) handling equipment; maintenance management; production control and maintenance data collection procedures; 
and lateral logistics functions related to munitions maintenance. 
3.1.2. 21M3I. Missile and re-entry systems; suspension and release equipment; weapon employment; nuclear surety; joint nuclear 
procedures; related test, handling, and support equipment; evolution of missiles; missile operations; solid and liquid rocket performance, 
maintenance capabilities, limitations, and employment of missile equipment; and ICBM life cycle logistics. 
3.1.3. 21M3N. Nuclear weapons and warheads; nuclear armament systems; suspension and release equipment; nuclear weapons 
employment; Munitions Accountable Systems Officer responsibilities; nuclear weapons maintenance, life cycle management, and 
inspections; nuclear surety; nuclear theory, effects, and components; nuclear weapons storage; nuclear weapons movement; nuclear 
weapons physical security; nuclear weapons transportation; nuclear weapons maintenance documentation, records and reports; and joint 
nuclear procedures. 
111 
3.2. 
DAFOCD, 31 Oct 24 
Education. For entry education requirements see Appendix A, 21M CIP Education Matrix. 
3.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated: 
3.3.1. 21M1. Completion of the Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Fundamentals Course is mandatory and a prerequisite for 
attending specialty shredout courses. 
3.3.2. 21M1A. Completion of Conventional Munitions Officer Course. 
3.3.3. 21M1I. Completion of ICBM Maintenance Officer Course. 
3.3.4. 21M1N. Completion of Nuclear Maintenance Officer Course. 
3.4. 
Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC specialty shredout indicated: 
3.4.1. 21M3A. A minimum of 24 months experience managing conventional munitions maintenance activities and completion of Career 
Field Education and Training Plan requirements are mandatory. Completion of the Combat Ammunition Planning and Production 9CAPP) 
course is required. 
3.4.2. 21M3I. A minimum of 24 months experience managing ICBM maintenance activities and completion of Career Field Education 
and Training Plan requirements are mandatory. 
3.4.3. 21M3N. A minimum of 24 months experience managing nuclear weapons maintenance activities and completion of Career Field 
Education and Training Plan requirements are mandatory. Completion of the Nuclear Accountability Course is required within 24 months 
of assignment. 
3.5. Other. 
3.5.1. For entry into this specialty (ANG and AFRC officers exempt), accessions must be screened for eligibility and meet requirements 
of the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) as outlined in the HQ AETC PRP prescreening guidance. 
3.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Tier 5 (T5) information, systems or similar classified environments. For award and retention of 
AFSCs 21MXX, completion of a current T5 Investigation IAW DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16-1405, Air Force Personnel Security 
Program. 
NOTE: Award of the entry level without a completed T5 Investigation is authorized provided an interim Top Secret security clearance has 
been granted according to DoDM 5200.02_AFMAN 16 -1405. 
4. *Specialty Shredouts: 
Suffix 
Portion of AFS to Which Related  
A 
Conventional  
Suffix 
Portion of AFS to Which Related 
N 
I 
ICBM    
Nuclear